# CompilerKit::Token

`Token` represents a single source code token, as generated by the lexical analysis phase of your
compiler. It keeps track of its location in the source code, the text it represents, and a type
(encoded as a string). Some common types are provided as static members of the class:

- `Token::Identifier = "Identifier"`
- `Token::Real = "Real"`
- `Token::Integer = "Integer"`
- `Token::EndOfFile = "EndOfFile"`
- `Token::InvalidToken = "InvalidToken"`
- `Token::InvalidChar = "InvalidChar"`

## Public API

#### `Token(const std::string& type, const std::string& text, int line, int col)`

Creates a new `Token` instance for a given text and type, at a given location. While it is
possible to create token that way, `Scanner` [provides a more streamlined API](scanner.html) for
this through `Scanner::makeToken()`.

**Parameters:**

- `type`: the type of token to create.
- `text`: the text the token represents.
- `line`: the source code line where the token starts.
- `column`: the source code column where the token starts.


#### `value<Type>() const -> Type`

If the `this` represents a number literal (`type()` is `Token::Real` or `Token::Integer`), returns
the numeric value it represents, cast to `Type`.

**Template Parameters:**

- `Type`: the type of numeric value to convert to. Valid types are `int` and `float`.


#### `is(const std::string& type) const -> bool`

Returns whether `this` is of the given type.

**Parameters:**

- `type`: the type to check `this` against.


#### `text() const -> const std::string&`

Returns the text of `this`.


#### `type() const -> const std::string&`

Returns the type of `this`.

